testing/fleetservertest/README.md, before:

# Mock Fleet Server

It's mock for fleet-server allowing to test the Agent interactions with
fleet-server without the need of running a fleet-server and having full
control of it to test even edge cases such as error handling.

## tl;dr

- See [`fleetservertest_test.go`](fleetserver_test.go) for examples.

- `fleetservertest.API` defines a `handlernameFn` property for each available handlers. By default, any not implemented handler returns a `http.StatusNotImplemented`.

- Use `fleetservertest.NewServer(fleetservertest.API{})` to create a new test server. It's a `*httptest.Server`:

```go
	NewServer(API{
		AckFn:            nil,
		CheckinFn:        nil,
		EnrollFn:         nil,
		ArtifactFn:       nil,
		StatusFn:         nil,
		UploadBeginFn:    nil,
		UploadChunkFn:    nil,
		UploadCompleteFn: nil,
	})
```

- Use the `fleetservertest.NewPATHNAME(args)` functions to get a path ready to be used:
```go
p := NewPathAgentAcks("my-agent-id")
// p = "/api/fleet/agents/my-agent-id/acks"
```

- Use `fleetservertest.NewHANDERNAME()` to get a ready to use handler:
```go
ts := fleetservertest.NewServer(API{
	CheckinFn: fleetservertest.NewCheckinHandler("agentID", "ackToken", false),
})
```

- Check [`handlers.go`](handlers.go) for the available paths and handlers.
- Check [`models.go`](models.go) for the request and response models or the [openapi](https://petstore.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/fleet-server/main/model/openapi.yml#/) definition.

Commit message:

enhance mock fleet-server and add --proxy-url integration test  (#2834)
* enhance test fleet-server
Now a almost fully functional mock fleet-server can be instantiated with a single call to fleetservertest.NewServerWithHandlers. The only missing handlers are the upload handlers.
testing/integration/proxy_url_test.go works as example on how to use the new features of  the test fleet-server

* add proxytest.Proxy:
A naive proxy to be used on tests which allows to configure URL rewrites and check all the calls made to it.
check the tests on testing/integration/proxy_url_test.go to see how to use proxytest.Proxy.

* add integration tests for the fleet-server proxy
The tests cover defining a proxy through --proxy-url and in the policy and the correct priority is respected

* fix the Go version used on the Github workflows
now it reads the version from the .go-version and not from the go.mod anymore.

* increase the memory allocated to the elastic-agent vagrant box

* allow -SNAPHOT versions to be passed to define.NewFixture

* add more helper methods to testing.Fixture and Install accepts more flags

* add version.Agent, a exported constant with the agent version

(cherry picked from commit 732d7c0e59acee09cf4568b267e2c10dee718525)

# Conflicts:
#	version/version.go

testing/fleetservertest/README.md, after:

# Mock Fleet Server

It's a mock for fleet-server, allowing testing of Agent interactions with
fleet-server without the need to run a fleet-server and have full control over
it, to even test edge cases such as error handling.

The server is designed to work with one single agent. The Agent either needs to
be enrolled or AgentID must be set on Handlers. Use `WithAgentID` to set it when
creating the server. Also, the requests are executed sequentially, making safe for
the handlers implementations to access and eventually change the Handlers properties.

Right now there is no authentication, which means any enrollment token will work
by default. There is some work done for authentication on [auth.go](auth.go).

## tl;dr

- See [testing/integration/proxy_url_test.go](../integration/proxy_url_test.go)
- and [`fleetservertest_test.go`](fleetserver_test.go) for examples.

- on `fleetservertest.Handlers` the `handlernameFn` properties are used for
- implementing the handlers.By default, any not implemented handler returns a
- `http.StatusNotImplemented`.

- Use `fleetservertest.NewServer(fleetservertest.Handlers{})` to create a new
- test server. It's a `*httptest.Server`:

```go
	NewServer(&Handlers{
		AckFn:            nil,
		CheckinFn:        nil,
		EnrollFn:         nil,
		ArtifactFn:       nil,
		StatusFn:         nil,
		UploadBeginFn:    nil,
		UploadChunkFn:    nil,
		UploadCompleteFn: nil,
	})
```

- Use the `fleetservertest.NewPATHNAME(args)` functions to get a path ready to be used:
```go
p := NewPathAgentAcks("my-agent-id")
// p = "/api/fleet/agents/my-agent-id/acks"
```

- Use `fleetservertest.NewHANDERNAME()` to get a ready to use handler:
```go
ts := fleetservertest.NewServer(&Handlers{
	CheckinFn: fleetservertest.NewHandlerStatusHealth(),
})
```

- Check [`proxy_url_test.go`](../integration/proxy_url_test.go) for examples.
- Check [`fleetserver_test.go`](fleetserver_test.go) for examples.
- Check [`handlers.go`](handlers.go) for the available paths and handlers.
- Check [`models.go`](models.go) for the request and response models or the [openapi](https://petstore.swagger.io/?url=https://raw.githubusercontent.com/elastic/fleet-server/main/model/openapi.yml#/) definition.
